README.md, before:

# Manga Translator

Python tool for translating text found within speech bubbles in manga images. It utilizes YOLOv8 for bubble detection, MangaOCR for text extraction, OpenCV, NumPy and Pillow for image processing and translation services like google, bing, baidu and Helsinki-NLP's opus-mt-ja-en model for text translation.

## How it works

- Detect speech bubbles in manga images.
- Extract text from detected speech bubbles.
- Clear speech bubbles for better visualization.
- Translate extracted text to the desired language.
- Add translated text back into the speech bubbles.

⚠️ **Python Compatibility:** Works only with **Python 3.8 to 3.11 (inclusive)**.

## Dataset

<a href="https://universe.roboflow.com/luciano-bastos-nunes/mangas-bubble">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Dataset%201-8A2BE2"></img>
</a>
<br>
<a href="https://universe.roboflow.com/sheepymeh/manga-vd5mb/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Dataset%202-8A2BE2"></img>
</a>

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/georgescutelnicu/Manga-Translator.git
    ```

2. Install the required dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

### Command Line Interface

1. Navigate to the directory where you cloned the repository:

    ```bash
    cd Manga-Translator
    ```

2. Run the `main.py` script with the required arguments:

    ```bash
    python main.py --model-path /path/to/model --image-path /path/to/image --font-path /path/to/font --translator [google/hf/bing/baidu] --save-path /path/to/save
    ```

    Replace the arguments as follows:
    - `/path/to/model`: Path to the YOLO model.
    - `/path/to/image`: Path to the input manga image.
    - `/path/to/font`: Path to the font file for adding text. (default: "fonts/animeace_i.ttf")
    - `[google/hf/bing/baidu]`: Choose the translation service, "hf" stands for Helsinki-NLP/opus-mt-ja-en model. (default: "google")
    - `/path/to/save`: Path to save the output image. (the image will be saved as "output_image.jpg")

### Flask Web App

1. Navigate to the directory where you cloned the repository:

    ```bash
    cd Manga-Translator
    ```

2. Run the Flask app:

    ```bash
    python app.py
    ```

3. Open your web browser and go to `http://localhost:5000` to access the app.
   
## Demo

<a href="https://huggingface.co/spaces/georgescutelnicu/MangaTranslator">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Deployed%20on%20Hugging%20Face%20with%20Gradio-FFA500"></img>
</a>

## Examples

## 1.

| Original Image | Bubbles Detection |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------:|
| ![Image 1](examples/0.png) | ![Image 2](examples/1.png) |

| Clear Bubbles | Add translation |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------:|
| ![Image 3](examples/2.png) | ![Image 4](examples/3.png) |

## 2.

| Original Image | Bubbles Detection |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------:|
| ![Image 1](examples/ex0.png) | ![Image 2](examples/ex1.png) |

| Clear Bubbles | Add translation |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------:|
| ![Image 3](examples/ex2.png) | ![Image 4](examples/ex3.png) |

## Caveats

- **Translation Quality**: Please note that the translation quality may vary, as we utilize free translation services.
- **Potential Solution**: Training a translation model or using a paid translation service for improved translation quality.
  <br> <br>
- **Limited Dataset**: The model's performance may be affected by the size and quality of the dataset used for training.
- **Potential Solution**: Creating a custom dataset.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

memperbarui enggine agar hasil translate lebih cepat serta, menambahkan model translate menggunakan gemini agar context lebih aware

README.md, after:

# Manga Translator

Python tool for translating text found within speech bubbles in manga images. It utilizes YOLOv8 for bubble detection, MangaOCR for text extraction, OpenCV, NumPy and Pillow for image processing and Gemini API for text translation.

## How it works

- Detect speech bubbles in manga images.
- Extract text from detected speech bubbles.
- Clear speech bubbles for better visualization.
- Translate extracted text to the desired language.
- Add translated text back into the speech bubbles.

⚠️ **Python Compatibility:** Works only with **Python 3.8 to 3.11 (inclusive)**.

## Dataset

<a href="https://universe.roboflow.com/luciano-bastos-nunes/mangas-bubble">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Dataset%201-8A2BE2"></img>
</a>
<br>
<a href="https://universe.roboflow.com/sheepymeh/manga-vd5mb/">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Dataset%202-8A2BE2"></img>
</a>

## Getting Started

1. Clone this repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/georgescutelnicu/Manga-Translator.git
    ```

2. Install the required dependencies:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

### Command Line Interface

1. Navigate to the directory where you cloned the repository:

    ```bash
    cd Manga-Translator
    ```

2. Run the `main.py` script with the required arguments:

    ```bash
    python main.py --model-path /path/to/model --image-path /path/to/image --font-path /path/to/font --source-lang ja --target-lang en --save-path /path/to/save
    ```

    Replace the arguments as follows:
    - `/path/to/model`: Path to the YOLO model.
    - `/path/to/image`: Path to the input manga image.
    - `/path/to/font`: Path to the font file for adding text. (default: "fonts/animeace_i.ttf")
    - `--source-lang`: Source language code (default: ja)
    - `--target-lang`: Target language code (default: en)
    - `/path/to/save`: Path to save the output image. (the image will be saved as "output_image.jpg")

### Flask Web App

1. Navigate to the directory where you cloned the repository:

    ```bash
    cd Manga-Translator
    ```

2. Run the Flask app:

    ```bash
    python app.py
    ```

3. Configure Gemini via `.env` (recommended):

    ```bash
    GEMINI_API_URL=http://localhost:8317/
    GEMINI_API_KEY=pudidil
    GEMINI_MODEL=gemini-2.5-flash
    ```

4. Open your web browser and go to `http://localhost:5000` to access the app.
   
## Demo

<a href="https://huggingface.co/spaces/georgescutelnicu/MangaTranslator">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Deployed%20on%20Hugging%20Face%20with%20Gradio-FFA500"></img>
</a>

## Examples

## 1.

| Original Image | Bubbles Detection |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------:|
| ![Image 1](examples/0.png) | ![Image 2](examples/1.png) |

| Clear Bubbles | Add translation |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------:|
| ![Image 3](examples/2.png) | ![Image 4](examples/3.png) |

## 2.

| Original Image | Bubbles Detection |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------:|
| ![Image 1](examples/ex0.png) | ![Image 2](examples/ex1.png) |

| Clear Bubbles | Add translation |
|:-----------------:|:-----------------:|
| ![Image 3](examples/ex2.png) | ![Image 4](examples/ex3.png) |

## Caveats

- **Translation Quality**: Please note that the translation quality may vary, as we utilize free translation services.
- **Potential Solution**: Training a translation model or using a paid translation service for improved translation quality.
  <br> <br>
- **Limited Dataset**: The model's performance may be affected by the size and quality of the dataset used for training.
- **Potential Solution**: Creating a custom dataset.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
